Our Senior Design project was focused on helping users identify and correct incorrect sitting posture. Office workers routinely sit for hours a day, and sitting with incorrect posture can create many long term health conditions. Especially with the outbreak of Covid-19, more people than ever are working remotely, often in less than ergonomic chairs. Two key system requirements the chair satisfies are that it can correctly identify the quality of posture with which the user is sitting and alert the user if they are sitting with poor posture for an extended period of time. These two system requirements make up the main purpose behind the Posture Watcher and its functionality. Without these requirements our project would look drastically different than it does now. 
The chair was constructed using a  Raspberry Pi connected to an external power bank and our custom pcb board. The board would read inputs from eight separate embedded force sensitive resistors and convert these analog readings into digital information for the Pi, as well as connecting powering the two vibration motors. The main software was a python program written on the Raspberry Pi, a corresponding Android application, and a machine learning model deployed on the Google cloud platform. The Pi would be in charge of reading inputs from the sensors, sending classification requests to the machine learning model, interpreting the returned classification, vibrating the motors when appropriate, sending posture data to the mobile application, and updating settings that were changed in the mobile application. 
We performed various tests with several different participants. Most of the tests consisted of having users sit in a way that they would characterize as “good posture,” “left leaning,” “right leaning,” “forward leaning,” and “back leaning” and comparing the classification from the algorithm to the posture the user is exhibiting. We found that the model accurately characterized the users posture roughly 90% of the time across all users, which we viewed as a success because these users were not necessarily used to train the model.
Our design requirements were updated over time as we made various important decisions about the Posture Watcher. The way our system requirements stand now, we have satisfied all of the requirements, which allows for a good user experience. However, there are some issues that are present in our final product. Because we did not want to destroy the chair we used in the process of implementing the project, the final design is a little unwieldy and bulky. However, for a prototype it does what it is designed to do, and if commercialization were to happen in the future, a more sleek, slimmed down design could be employed.
